Past Paper 2021
===============

Question 1
----------

### a.

See Horse.java

### b.

#### i.

- 2 primative (int,int), 2 reference (String, Owner)
- static primative is not instance variable.

#### ii.

- None.
- No overloading.

#### iii.

- getters and setters used to access data stored in the object.
- actual implementation and data structures are hidden from the user of the class.

#### iv.

- command will print the hex representation of the object's hashCode, which is not particularly human readable.
- writing the toString method overrides the Object.toString method, and could produce a more human-readable version.

### c.

See Horse.java

### d.

#### i.

- Horse depends on Owner.
- i.e. Owner is a dependancy of Horse.
- Owner has no concept of a Horse.

#### ii.

- No it is not necessary, the variable will be created when the program first runs, and the static (class) variable can
  be publically accessed before creating any instances.

#### iii.

- No it will not. A zero argument constructor is created automatically only if another constructor is not available.
- As there is a two argument constructor only, this will not compile.

Question 2
----------

### a.

### c.

#### iii.

- If a valid override is not provided under the annotation a compiler error will be produced.
- `java: method does not override or implement a method from a supertype`

### d.

#### i.

- method polymorphism
- Train type has the go(int) method available, so all methods that extend the abstract class also have the methods.
- t2.go(100) executes the overriden method within SpeedLimitedTrain, whereas the t1.go(100) executes the inherited
  method from the Train abstract class.

#### ii.

- To implement Railable, RollerCoaster will have to implement the interfaces methods.
- Track requires a Railable type, and the class will make use of the interface's methods.
- Track is not concerned with the implementation of the interface's methods, just that they are available.
- Because a RollerCoaster and a Train both have the required methods available, a Train object and a RollerCoaster
  object
- are substitutable for each other,
- That is, both a RollerCoaster and a Train Object are both valid Railable types.

### e.

- Use of an abstract class promotes code reuse, as common code can be promoted to a common superclass.
- Train can be used as a type that will support polymorphism in other classes, allowing further 'Trains' to be developed
  and used without change.
- Use of abstract classes and interfaces, promotes a common API for development.
- instance variables of Train and subclasses are initialised by using a call to super(), which calls the constructor in
  the class being inherited from.
- These can be altered using the provided setter methods.

Question 3
----------

### a, b.

See Concert.java

### c.

See ConcertHall.java

### d.

#### i.

Using an interface type allows the concrete implementation to be replaced easily for another concrete implementation
that implements the same interface.

#### ii.
- Sets do not allow duplicate entries, and so will not list composers' work more than once.
- Lists maintain their order, which makes sense for a programme.  Also composers could play more than once if required.