Past Paper 2017
===============

Question 1
----------

### a.

see Player.java

### b.

- data hiding is illustrated by the private instance variables that are not publically visible/accessible.
- This means that the inner workings of the class are not relied upon by dependant classes.
- This allows encapsulation, where the class 'encapsulates' the inner workings within publically available methods.
- This allows the class to change the implementation, without making changes to implementing classes.

### c.

#### i.

- **overloading** is having multiple method or constructor headers with the same name, but different headers. This
  allows the method to act differently depending on the context.
- **overriding** is a method having the same method header of a parent class within an extending subclass. This method
  replaces the parent method within calls made to subclass instances.

#### ii.

- *toString()* is **overridden**, it overrides the *Object.toString()* method with the same method header.

### d.

- The Player class does not have a zero argument constructor.
- The only constructor requires an actual parameter representing the player's name
- `messi` is the name of the variable that references the new Player object.
- `Player messi = new Player("Messi")` would be required.

### e.

#### i.

- public methods are accessible to any class that imports the method.
- public methods are also inherited within any subclass that extends the Player class.

#### ii.

- `equals(object):boolean`

#### iii.

- boolean.

#### iv.

- The Object passed as an argument can be of any type, as the Object class is the parent of all classes in Java.
- Object is used to allow the class to be checked for equality with all other objects, but results in **type loss**
- the Object o is cast (unchecked) as a Player object.
- This tells the compiler that the passed object is a Player instance.
- It will result in a runtime ClassCast exception if the passed object is not a Player instance.

### f.

#### i.

`true`

- two Player objects will be created, both with have an empty string as a name (valid inputs)
- both will have goals initialised to 0
- cast will not fail as the passed object is a player
- `if (p.getGoals() == this.getGoals() && // TRUE both 0
  p.getName().equals(this.getName())        // TRUE both ""
  {
  return true; // method returns true.
  } `
- both will be structuarally equal.
- `Player p = new Player(""); // Nothing to console
  Player q = new Player(""); // Nothing to console
  System.out.println(p.equals(q)); // Print the result of the structual equality check to the console (and a newline character)`

#### ii.

| Class | Player |
|-------|--------|
| goals | 1      |
| name  | Rob    |

| Class | Player |
|-------|--------|
| goals | 2      |
| name  | Sue    |

### g.

#### i.

- **Team depends on Player**

- Player has no concept of a Team
- Team uses the Player type
- Therefore Player is a *dependancy* of Team.

#### ii.

See Team.java

#### iii.

```console
Team  has the following players:

```

- "Team" is assigned to temp, followed by a space and an empty string, followed by a second space and "has the following players:"
- This is followed by a new line character after the initial line.
- Since numOfPlayers is initialised to zero the for loop will not execute any code (i = 0, which is equal to numOfPlayers so the for condition is not met.)
- temp is returned and printed to the console.

#### iv.

- players is a reference to an array.
- passing a reference means that the caller will be able to directly alter the underlying array,
- breaking encapsulation.

Question 2
----------

### a.



Question 3
----------

### a.