# Past Paper 2015

## Question 1

### a.

#### i.

- the static keyword allows the constants to be used without first creating an instance of the class.
- it is available to be used across instances and is tied to the class, not a particular instance.

- final creates an immutable reference or primative, and the compiler will not allow this to be reassigned or changed.

- The constants are basic truths, and will not ever need to change. Creating them as static allows easy use in
  implementing classes, without the need to create an instance first.

#### ii.

- private allows only the enclosing class to access the method.
- This hides the method from classes using the Clock class, allowing it to change if required.

#### iii.

- private instance variables, scoped to an instance of the class.

#### iv.

- int
- boolean

#### v. Formal Arguments within Clock

- Formal Arguments are the listed parameters within the method or constructor header.
- h, m, s within constructor
- hour, min, sec within timeOkay method.

#### vi.

- *4* Operators

1. = Assignment operator.
2. \< Less-Than operator.
3. || Logical OR operator.
4. \>= Greater-Than or equal-to operator.

### b.

#### i.

- See Q1Clock.java

#### ii.

- Yes the Clock.equals method overloads the inherited Object.equals method each having different method headers.

#### iii.

- Yes the toString method. This overrides the Object.toString method which has the same method header.

### c.

#### i.

|      Class      |      Clock       |
|:---------------:|:----------------:|
|   +hour : int   |        1         |
|    +min: int    |        0         |
|   +sec : int    |        1         |
| public protocol |  equals:boolean  |
|                 | toString:String  |
|                 |  increment:void  |
|                 | timeOkay:boolean |

#### ii.

- `c1 0:0:0`
- `c2 0:0:1`
- `Same time is false`

## Question 2

### a.

see Lockable.java

### b.

#### i.

`public class LockableFrog extends Frog implements Lockable`

#### ii, iii.

See LockableFrog.java

### c.

- As a subclass of LockableFrog, SecurableFrog will have access to all of the public and protected methods of the
  superclass.
- LockableFrog implements the Lockable interface, and has the public methods required to implement it, lock and unlock.
- SecurableFrog will have access to these methods via inheritance, therefore it can implement the interface.

### d.

- a Class can implement multiple interfaces, but inherit from only one abstract class.
- interfaces (can now) and abstract classes can hold method bodies.
- methods in abstract classes do not need to be overridden
- interfaces and astract classes both provide a means of method polymorphism, by providing a type to work to.

## Question 3

see FootballClub.java