Past Paper 2014
===============

Question 1
----------

### b.

- @Override was used above toString() as it overrides a method in the base Object class.
- This is useful because it will cause a compile-time error if the overridden method header is not correct.
- It is also useful because other developers can identify that it is intended to be an overridden method (changes will
  also lead to compile time errors.)

### c.

#### i.

- 1, 2, 3

#### ii.

- none

#### iii.

- 1, 2, 3

#### iv.

- none

#### v.

- 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7

#### vi.

- 1, 2, 3

#### vii.

- none

#### viii.

- none

### d.

| Class: |     Player      |
|:------:|:---------------:|
| name:  | "Joseph Bloggs" |
| goals: |        0        |

### e.

- actual arguments, or actual parameters, often just arguments, are the values passed into a method or constructor.
- such as the following declaring an instance of Player: `Player p1 = new Player("Actual Parameter")`
- formal arguments, or formal parameters, often just parameters, are the declared variables within the header of a
  method or constructor that will be assigned when the method is invoked.
- such as the aName in the setName method `public void setName(String aName)`

### f.

- A call to super is incorrectly made in the constructor, but the class does not inherit from (*extend*) another class,
  so it is superfluous.
- remove super call from constructor.

Question 2
----------

### a.

- see Feedable.java

### b.

- see HungryFrog.java

### c.

- feedable interface requires `public boolean feed()` method
- if VegatarianHungryFrog is a subclass, it inherits the protected and public methods of the parent class.
- HungryFrog is the parent class, and has a public feed() method, therefore this will be available to subclasses.

### d.

- The ZooKeeper class requires the ability to call the feed() method on the actual parameter passed into the
  constructor.
- The implementation of the feed() method will be specific to the Class that declares it.
- Use of the interface allows any class to implement the functionality.
- ZooKeeper is not aware of the implementation details.

### e.

- Both set out required header methods to be overridden by implementing/extending classes.
- Both allow polymorphism by acting as a supertype, allowing implementing subtypes to be exchanged.
- Both can hold constants.
- Both do not have method bodies, although interfaces can now have default method implementations (java 8+)

Question 3
----------

### a.

#### i.

` double[] temps = new double[12]; `

- Fixed size array as there will only ever be 12 months, therefore 12 values.
- data is linear and ordered.
- average values are likely to require decimals.

#### ii.

`Set myList = new HashSet<String>();`

- Duplicates are not allowed in Sets, so no duplicates on list.
- Unordered, as order is unlikely to be important.
- Shopping items are likely to be Strings
- Not a fixed size as amount of shopping is unknown.

### b.

See BulbCatalogue_List.java

#### viii.

See BulbCatalogue.java

- Use of a Set<String> in the place of a List<String>
- Only other change is in the initialisation of the bulbMap, as List and Set share Collection interface implementation.

#### ix.

```
public void addVariety(String bulbType, String variety)
	{
		bulbMap.get(bulbType)
		       .add(variety);
	}
```

- The actual parameters could be null, either of which will cause the Map.get() and List.add() methods to throw a null pointer exception, which would crash the application at runtime.
- The bulbType could incorrect, or not yet added.  The add method will return null, and a null pointer exception will occur when the add method attempts to run.
- To combat this it can be wrapped in a try catch block, where thrown exceptions can be 'caught' and appropriate actions taken.

Question 4
----------

### a.

#### i.

- Streams start at a source and pass data from one method to the next, ending at a data sink.
- the methods in-between take and manipulate the stream as an input and output an edited version, which is then passed to the next method in the chain.

#### ii.

- IO devices are comparatively slow to read from, which can lead to slowdowns in applcations.
- a buffer is a contiguous allocation in memory.
- it enables extremely fast random access IO
- Data can be read to the buffer asynchronously.