Past Paper 2019
===============

Question 1
----------

### a.

See Performer.java

### b.

#### i.

- Messages are sent
- 5, 8,9,10,11,12

#### ii.

- Reference variables declared:
- 1, 3,6,7

#### iii.

- None

#### iv.

- Object construction
- 2, 4,6,7

#### v.

- Operators used:
- Assignment operator - 2,4,5,6,7

#### vi.

- Formal Arguments
- None

#### v.

- Actual Arguments
- 2, 4, 6,7,8,9,10,11,12

### c.

See Performer.java

### d.

#### i.

- Performer depends on Branch.
- i.e. Branch is a dependancy of Performer.
- Branch does not depend on Performer
- i.e. Performer is not a dependancy of Branch.
- because: Branch has no concept of a Performer, whereas a Performer initialises a Branch object

#### ii.

- minPayRate is a class variable and is created when the application is first run, not at instance creation.
- class (static) variables, therefore, do not need an instance to be created at all.

#### iii.

- `aPayRate`, the formal parameter declared within the `setPayRate` method is, as with all formal parameters, scoped
  only to the method it is declared within.
- It cannot be accessed outside the block of code is declared within, which is the method itself.
- The instance variable `payrate` declared within the class as `private double payRate` is scoped within an instance of
  the class, and is only available to methods within the class.

Question 2
----------

### a.

See Vehicle.java

### c.

See Car.java

#### ii.

- It informs the compiler that the method is overriding a method in the superclass.
- As the Car class is not explicitly implementing the drivable interface, no error would be flagged if the header is
  incorrect. (It could be a perfectly valid overload for example).
- If the method header is incorrect, i.e. not an overload of a superclass method, a compiler error will be produced.

#### iii.

- we could create a static (class) variable and increment it within the constructor as objects are created.

```
/** Keeping count of Car objects using a static variable */
private static int carCounter = 0;


public static int getCarCounter()
{
    return carCounter;
}


public Car()
{
    carCounter++;
    // other constructory stuff goes here...
}
```

### d.

#### i.

- Car is a type of Vehicle, and as Vehicle implements the Drivable interface all child classes also inherently
- implement the interface.
- Speedboat explicitly implements the Drivable interface, and so is also of the type Drivable.

#### ii.

- The Service class requires an Object of type Drivable, This allows it to call the methods detailed within the
  interface.
- By working to the interface the Service class can accept any class as an actual argument that implements the
  interface.
- The actual methods called will change depending on the argument passed.
- This is called method polymorphism.

### e.

- interfaces cannot declare instance variables, abstract classes can.
- interfaces can only hold publicly accessible methods, abstract classes can also hold protected and package private
  methods.
- classes can implement multiple interfaces, but extend only one abstract class.

### f.

- Nothing further is required.
- SportsCar is also a type of Car and Vehicle.
- Since Vehicle implements the interface, all subclasses have access to the methods within the parent.
- Car and SportsCar implicitly implement the Drivable interface.

See SportsCar.java & ServiceTest.java for proof of this.

Question 3
----------

### a, b, c, d1

See CaravanClub.java, CaravanSite.java, Booking.java

### d2

#### i.

- Working to an interface allows the concrete implementation that implements the interface to be swapped for another
  concrete class easily, should requirements change.
- Working to an interface potentially allows the user of the class to choose the data structure in use, as opposed to
  the creator, promoting reusability.

#### ii.

- ArrayList implements the List interface, and can be used where a List is required, arrays do not.
- ArrayList is a generic class and requires classes in its declaration with boxed primatives if required, arrays can use
  primatives directly.