# M250 Past Paper 2013

## Question 1

### a.

Reference type variables hold *references* to other objects, which may themselves hold *references* to other objects
or *primative* values. A *primative* variable does not hold a reference, but the actual value itself. Example primitives
in Java are char, int, boolean.

### b.

```java
public class PostalAddress
{
	private final String firstLine;
	private final String secondLine;
	private final String postCode;


	public PostalAddress(String aFirstLine, String aSecondLine, String aPostCode)
	{
		firstLine = aFirstLine;
		secondLine = aSecondLine;
		postCode = aPostCode;
	}


	public String getDeliveryInfo()
	{
		return postCode.substring(postCode.length() - 3);
	}


	public String getAddress(String postCodeToCheck)
	{
		if(postCode.equals(postCodeToCheck)) {
			return String.format("%s %s %s", firstLine, secondLine, postCode);
		}
		else {
			return "no match";
		}
	}
}
```

### c.

Data hiding is the protection of internal class fields and methods not intended on being accessible by the end user of
the class.
By hiding these it enables encapsulation, allowing the internal workings of the class to change without affecting the
current usage of the class.

In Java this is achieved using private class instance variables, and accessor/setter methods. These methods can then
present the required data as required.

In PostalAddress data hiding is achieved with private instance variables, and accessor methods that return only the
required information, made from the data within the fields.

### d.

#### i.

- 1
- 3
- 4
- 5

#### ii.

- 6
- 7

#### iii.

- 2

#### iv.

- 4
- 6
- 2 is calling a constructor, not a method.

#### v.

- None

#### vi.

- None

#### vii.

- 2

## Question 2

### a.

```java
public interface Trainable
{
	void pushUps(int numberToPerform);


	void marchToMiddle();
}
```

### b.

#### i.

```java
public class TrainableFrog extends Frog implements Trainable
{
}
```

#### ii.

- Had to make up Frog class so unlikely to be text book correct...

```java
public TrainableFrog()
		{
		super();
		}


public TrainableFrog(int initialPos)
		{
		super(initialPos);
		}
```

#### iii.

```java
@Override public void pushUps(int numberToPerform)
		{
		for(int i=0;i<numberToPerform; i++){
		jump();
		moveRight(1);
		croak();
		}
		}
```

#### iv.

```java
@Override public void marchToMiddle()
		{
		while(pos!=5){
		jump();
		if(pos< 5){
		moveRight(1);
		}
		else if(pos>5){
		moveLeft(1);
		}
		}
		}   
```

### c.

Interfaces allow decoupled implementation of a class's requirements. By working to the interface this implementation can
be provided by any class that can fulfil it,
allowing polymorphism.

In our example this could be a TrainableDog or NonArrogantCat that can also follow orders and marchToMiddle() and do
pushUps(int).

### d.

- Each provide a framework for inheriting/implementing classes to override.
- Each encourage polymorphism by allowing using classes to work to the methods they provide, which the
  inheriting/implementing class can extend.
- Each can inherit/extend from parent classes/interfaces.

### e.

- To implement the Trainable interface you must have the marchToMiddle() and pushUps(int) methods.
- Child classes inherit protected and public classes present on the parent class.
- marchToMiddle() and pushUps(int) are public and present on the parent class and are thus available to LearnerFrog.
- Since LearnerFrog has these methods available in can implement the interface.

## 3

### a.

```java
private Map<Integer, String> catalogue;
```

### b.

```java
public BulbCatalogue(){
		catalogue=new HashMap<>();
		}
```

### c.

```java
public void populateCatalogue()
		{
		catalogue.put(10,"Sparky");
		catalogue.put(200,"BrightGuy");
		catalogue.put(911,"Neverlast");
		catalogue.put(42,"Blinker");
		}
```

### d.

```java
public void updateCatalogue()
		{
		for(int model:catalogue.keySet()){
		if(model< 100){
		catalogue.put(model,catalogue.get(model).concat(" - economy"));
		}
		}
		}   
```

### e.

- Arrays would allow duplication of the unique model numbers, potentially leading to duplication of models.
- Maps have extremely fast data retrieval characteristics. the array will need to be searched in a linear manner.
- Sorting the array or inserting out of sequence will alter the key/values.

### f.

- The HashMap can be swapped for a different collection type that implements the Map interface easily.
- HashMaps are fast for random look-ups, but having sorted data may be faster if this is often required, the
  implementation can be replaced without many changes to the class.

### g.

- Integers (wrapped int objects) are used to create the Map, as primatives cannot be used in Java generics.
- Autoboxing is used in the creation of entries as integers are provided by the populateCatalogue method.
- These are unboxed when checking the equality in the updateCatalogue method.git